readme.md, before:

# polylith-kaocha

Simple [Kaocha](https://github.com/lambdaisland/kaocha/)-based test runner
implementation for [Polylith](https://github.com/polyfy/polylith/).

Created as a demonstration for Polylith's
[pluggable test runner support](https://github.com/polyfy/polylith/pull/196)
, it can use custom Kaocha configuration from resources and allows for
extensibility by providing a few hooks throughout the process.

### Disclaimer

This repository started out aiming to serve as an example implementation of a test runner that can be plugged into a
Polylith workspace. The source code itself is organized into a Polylith workspace for the following reasons:

1. So that it eats its own dogfood, that is, tests for this repository are
   executed using the product of it
2. So that the author can practice setting up a Polylith repository

This repository is not intended to serve as a demonstration of a Polylith workspace and in places might not be fully
idiomatic Polylith.

Alpha software. While breaking changes are not planned at this point, they should not come as a surprise.

## Usage

### 1. Add dep to :poly alias

Add the above to the `:poly` alias of the root `deps.edn` in your Polylith
workspace, along with a reference to a version of `polylith/clj-poly` which
includes [pluggable test runner support](https://github.com/polyfy/polylith/pull/196):

```clojure
{

 :aliases
 {:poly
  {:extra-deps
   {polylith/clj-poly
    {:git/url "https://github.com/polyfy/polylith"
     :git/sha "349875fa6898d5f8c785c0d7279e6d35c7a39086"
     :deps/root "projects/poly"}

    polylith-kaocha/test-runner
    {:git/url "https://github.com/imrekoszo/polylith-kaocha"
     :git/tag "v0.8.1"
     :git/sha "a457c7f"
     :deps/root "projects/test-runner"}}}}

 }
```

### 2. Reference in workspace config

After which you can configure your projects to be tested with it
in `workspace.edn`:

```clojure
{

 ;; To use it as the default test runner in the workspace
 :test {:create-test-runner polylith-kaocha.test-runner/create}

 :projects
 {
  ;; To only use it for specific projects
  "foo" {:test {:create-test-runner polylith-kaocha.test-runner/create}}

  ;; To revert to the default test runner only for specific projects
  "bar" {:test {:create-test-runner :default}}

  ;; To use it in addition to the default test runner
  "baz" {:test {:create-test-runner [:default polylith-kaocha.test-runner/create]}}
  }
 }
```

### 3. Add kaocha wrapper dep to affected projects

Unless configured otherwise, this test runner will try to invoke Kaocha's own
commands via the wrapper in this workspace in the contexts of projects
configured, the wrapper itself must be added as a test dependency for every such
project:

```clojure
{

 :aliases
 {:test
  {:extra-deps
   {polylith-kaocha/kaocha-wrapper
    {:git/url "https://github.com/imrekoszo/polylith-kaocha"
     :git/tag "v0.8.1"
     :git/sha "a457c7f"
     :deps/root "projects/kaocha-wrapper"}}}}

 }
```

### 4. Run tests

```shell
clojure -Srepro -M:poly test <poly test args>
```

To get debug output, use the `:verbose` poly test arg.

### 5. Configuration

Out of the box this applies the default Kaocha configuration which at this time
is to run `clojure.test` tests. There are a few options to change this.

All the following settings can either be applied to the entire workspace, or
specific projects by adding them to `workspace.edn`:

```clojure
{
 :test {;; here to apply them to the entire workspace
        }

 :projects
 {"foo" {:test {;; here to apply to specific projects
                }}}
 }
```

#### Kaocha configuration

To supply your
own [Kaocha config](https://github.com/lambdaisland/kaocha/blob/main/doc/03_configuration.md)
, as a _resource_, put one on the classpath for all _project_-s that are to use
it and set:

```clojure
:polylith-kaocha/config-resource "resource/path/my-tests.edn"
```

#### Hooking into parts of the process

Check the `example` project and the namespaces
`polylith-kaocha.kaocha-test-runner.core` and
`polylith-kaocha.kaocha-wrapper.config` for how these are used

```clojure
;; must be available on the project's classpath
:polylith-kaocha.kaocha-wrapper/post-load-config polylith-kaocha.example.hooks/post-load-config
:polylith-kaocha.kaocha-wrapper/post-enhance-config polylith-kaocha.example.hooks/post-enhance-config
:polylith-kaocha/tests-present? polylith-kaocha.example.hooks/tests-present?
:polylith-kaocha/run-tests polylith-kaocha.example.hooks/run-tests

;; must be available on the poly tool's classpath
:polylith-kaocha/runner-opts->kaocha-poly-opts polylith-kaocha.hooks/runner-opts->kaocha-poly-opts
```

## Development

This repository itself is a [Polylith](https://github.com/polyfy/polylith/)
workspace, so those conventions, commands etc. mostly apply.

### bb tasks

There are
some [Babashka](https://github.com/babashka/babashka) [tasks](https://book.babashka.org/#tasks)
defined in `bb.edn` to save some typing. Use `bb tasks` to find out more.

Commit message:

docs: add note about #5 to readme

readme.md, after:

# polylith-kaocha

Simple [Kaocha](https://github.com/lambdaisland/kaocha/)-based test runner
implementation for [Polylith](https://github.com/polyfy/polylith/).

Created as a demonstration for Polylith's
[pluggable test runner support](https://github.com/polyfy/polylith/pull/196)
, it can use custom Kaocha configuration from resources and allows for
extensibility by providing a few hooks throughout the process.

### Disclaimer

This repository started out aiming to serve as an example implementation of a test runner that can be plugged into a
Polylith workspace. The source code itself is organized into a Polylith workspace for the following reasons:

1. So that it eats its own dogfood, that is, tests for this repository are
   executed using the product of it
2. So that the author can practice setting up a Polylith repository

This repository is not intended to serve as a demonstration of a Polylith workspace and in places might not be fully
idiomatic Polylith.

Alpha software. While breaking changes are not planned at this point, they should not come as a surprise.

## Usage

### 1. Add dep to :poly alias

Add the above to the `:poly` alias of the root `deps.edn` in your Polylith
workspace, along with a reference to a version of `polylith/clj-poly` which
includes [pluggable test runner support](https://github.com/polyfy/polylith/pull/196):

```clojure
{

 :aliases
 {:poly
  {:extra-deps
   {polylith/clj-poly
    {:git/url "https://github.com/polyfy/polylith"
     :git/sha "349875fa6898d5f8c785c0d7279e6d35c7a39086"
     :deps/root "projects/poly"}

    polylith-kaocha/test-runner
    {:git/url "https://github.com/imrekoszo/polylith-kaocha"
     :git/tag "v0.8.1"
     :git/sha "a457c7f"
     :deps/root "projects/test-runner"}}}}

 }
```

### 2. Reference in workspace config

After which you can configure your projects to be tested with it
in `workspace.edn`:

```clojure
{

 ;; To use it as the default test runner in the workspace
 :test {:create-test-runner polylith-kaocha.test-runner/create}

 :projects
 {
  ;; To only use it for specific projects
  "foo" {:test {:create-test-runner polylith-kaocha.test-runner/create}}

  ;; To revert to the default test runner only for specific projects
  "bar" {:test {:create-test-runner :default}}

  ;; To use it in addition to the default test runner
  "baz" {:test {:create-test-runner [:default polylith-kaocha.test-runner/create]}}
  }
 }
```

### 3. Add kaocha wrapper dep to affected projects

Unless configured otherwise, this test runner will try to invoke Kaocha's own
commands via the wrapper in this workspace in the contexts of projects
configured, the wrapper itself must be added as a test dependency for every such
project:

```clojure
{

 :aliases
 {:test
  {:extra-deps
   {polylith-kaocha/kaocha-wrapper
    {:git/url "https://github.com/imrekoszo/polylith-kaocha"
     :git/tag "v0.8.1"
     :git/sha "a457c7f"
     :deps/root "projects/kaocha-wrapper"}}}}

 }
```

### 4. Run tests

```shell
clojure -Srepro -M:poly test <poly test args>
```

To get debug output, use the `:verbose` poly test arg.

> Note: due to how standalone `poly` tool installations [are set up](https://github.com/imrekoszo/polylith-kaocha/issues/5#issuecomment-1223855462), those will not work with this plugin.<br/> 
> You need to run `clojure -M:poly test` instead of `poly test`.


### 5. Configuration

Out of the box this applies the default Kaocha configuration which at this time
is to run `clojure.test` tests. There are a few options to change this.

All the following settings can either be applied to the entire workspace, or
specific projects by adding them to `workspace.edn`:

```clojure
{
 :test {;; here to apply them to the entire workspace
        }

 :projects
 {"foo" {:test {;; here to apply to specific projects
                }}}
 }
```

#### Kaocha configuration

To supply your
own [Kaocha config](https://github.com/lambdaisland/kaocha/blob/main/doc/03_configuration.md)
, as a _resource_, put one on the classpath for all _project_-s that are to use
it and set:

```clojure
:polylith-kaocha/config-resource "resource/path/my-tests.edn"
```

#### Hooking into parts of the process

Check the `example` project and the namespaces
`polylith-kaocha.kaocha-test-runner.core` and
`polylith-kaocha.kaocha-wrapper.config` for how these are used

```clojure
;; must be available on the project's classpath
:polylith-kaocha.kaocha-wrapper/post-load-config polylith-kaocha.example.hooks/post-load-config
:polylith-kaocha.kaocha-wrapper/post-enhance-config polylith-kaocha.example.hooks/post-enhance-config
:polylith-kaocha/tests-present? polylith-kaocha.example.hooks/tests-present?
:polylith-kaocha/run-tests polylith-kaocha.example.hooks/run-tests

;; must be available on the poly tool's classpath
:polylith-kaocha/runner-opts->kaocha-poly-opts polylith-kaocha.hooks/runner-opts->kaocha-poly-opts
```

## Development

This repository itself is a [Polylith](https://github.com/polyfy/polylith/)
workspace, so those conventions, commands etc. mostly apply.

### bb tasks

There are
some [Babashka](https://github.com/babashka/babashka) [tasks](https://book.babashka.org/#tasks)
defined in `bb.edn` to save some typing. Use `bb tasks` to find out more.
